README.md, before:

# URLshortener
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/slytomcat/URLshortener.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/slytomcat/URLshortener)
[![DeepSource](https://static.deepsource.io/deepsource-badge-light.svg)](https://deepsource.io/gh/slytomcat/URLshortener/?ref=repository-badge)

URLshortener is a micro-service to shorten long URLs and to handle the redirection by generated short URLs.

The service requires and MySQL server connection and database structure described in [schema.sql](https://github.com/slytomcat/URLshortener/blob/master/schema.sql)

Docker image: https://hub.docker.com/r/slytomcat/urlshortener

### Request for short URL:

URL: `<host>[:<port>]/api/v1/token`

Method: `POST`

Request body: JSON with following parameters:

- url: URL to shorten, mandatory
- exp: short URL expiration in days, optional

Success response: HTTP 200 OK with body containing JSON with following parameters:

- token: token for short URL
- url: short URL

### Request to expire token:

URL: `<host>[:<port>]/api/v1/expire`

Method: `POST`

Request body: JSON with following parameter:

- token: token for short URL

Success response: HTTP 200 OK

### Redirect to long URL:
URL: `<host>[:<port>]/<token>` - URL from response on request for short URL

Method: `GET`

Response contain the redirection to long URL (response code: HTTP 301 'Moved permanently' with 'Location' = long URL in header)

### Health-check:
URL: `<host>[:<port>]/`

Method: `GET`

Response: simple home page and HTTP 200 OK in case of good service health or HTTP 500 Server error in case of bad service health


### Configuration file

    {

    "DSN":"shortener:<password>@<protocol>(<host>:<port>)/shortener_DB",

    "MaxOpenConns":"33",

    "ListenHostPort":"0.0.0.0:80",

    "DefaultExp":"30",

    "ShortDomain":"<shortDomain>",

    "Mode":"0"

    }

Where:

- DSN - MySQL connection string (mandatory, also can set via URLSHORTENER_DSN environment variable)
- MaxOpenConns - DataBase connections pool size (optional, default 10)
- ListenHostPort - host and port to listen on (optional, default localhost:8080)
- DefaultExp - default token expiration period in days (optional, default 1)
- ShortDomain - short domain name for short URL creation (optional, default localhost:8080)
- Mode - service mode (optional, default 0):

   0 - service handles all requests

   1 - request for redirect is disabled

   2 - request for short URL is disabled

   4 - request for token expiration is disabled

Mode value can be a sum of several modes, for example Mode=6 disables requests for short URL and for token expiration.

Commit message:

run tests on MySQL in docker

README.md, after:

# URLshortener
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/slytomcat/URLshortener.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/slytomcat/URLshortener)
[![DeepSource](https://static.deepsource.io/deepsource-badge-light.svg)](https://deepsource.io/gh/slytomcat/URLshortener/?ref=repository-badge)

URLshortener is a micro-service to shorten long URLs and to handle the redirection by generated short URLs.

The service requires and MySQL server connection and database structure described in [schema.sql](https://github.com/slytomcat/URLshortener/blob/master/schema.sql). Look in [.circleci/mysqlsetup.sh](https://github.com/slytomcat/URLshortener/blob/master/.cirleci/mysqlsetup.sh) how setup MySQL in docker for tests. 

Docker image: https://hub.docker.com/r/slytomcat/urlshortener

### Request for short URL:

URL: `<host>[:<port>]/api/v1/token`

Method: `POST`

Request body: JSON with following parameters:

- `url`: URL to shorten, mandatory
- `exp`: short URL expiration in days, optional

Success response: HTTP 200 OK with body containing JSON with following parameters:

- `token`: token for short URL
- `url`: short URL

### Request to expire token:

URL: `<host>[:<port>]/api/v1/expire`

Method: `POST`

Request body: JSON with following parameter:

- `token`: token for short URL

Success response: HTTP 200 OK

### Redirect to long URL:
URL: `<host>[:<port>]/<token>` - URL from response on request for short URL

Method: `GET`

Response contain the redirection to long URL (response code: HTTP 301 'Moved permanently' with 'Location' = long URL in header)

### Health-check:
URL: `<host>[:<port>]/`

Method: `GET`

Response: simple home page and HTTP 200 OK in case of good service health or HTTP 500 Server error in case of bad service health


### Configuration file

    {

    "DSN":"shortener:<password>@<protocol>(<host>:<port>)/shortener_DB",

    "MaxOpenConns":"33",

    "ListenHostPort":"0.0.0.0:80",

    "DefaultExp":"30",

    "ShortDomain":"<shortDomain>",

    "Mode":"0"

    }

Where:

- `DSN` - MySQL connection string (mandatory, also can set via URLSHORTENER_DSN environment variable)
- `MaxOpenConns` - DataBase connections pool size (optional, default 10)
- `ListenHostPort` - host and port to listen on (optional, default localhost:8080)
- `DefaultExp` - default token expiration period in days (optional, default 1)
- `ShortDomain` - short domain name for short URL creation (optional, default localhost:8080)
- `Mode` - service mode (optional, default 0):

   0 - service handles all requests

   1 - request for redirect is disabled

   2 - request for short URL is disabled

   4 - request for token expiration is disabled

Mode value can be a sum of several modes, for example Mode=6 disables requests for short URL and for token expiration.
